Powering any performance improvement
effort should be some data,
we should have some idea of what's wrong,
and how are we going to fix it?
And when do we know if we're done?
So we need some metrics.
Well, some of the most important metrics
for a performance effort actually have
nothing to do with performance, their
business metrics or their website metrics.
Here's some analytics from request
metrics that show our bounce rate,
which is how many times does a user hit
our site and then immediately leave?
And then how long do
they spend on our site?
When they do what's, how long is their
session and here's the chart over time.
There's a couple of things that
are maybe a little weird about this.
There's some anomalies,
there's a big decrease or
a little decrease in
session time right here.
There's a whole bunch of wonky
stuff going on right here and
a little bit of wonky stuff
going on right there.
And the interesting to know,
why did this happen?
Is there a technical reason
behind these changes?
Or is it just the randomness
of the internet?
Well, in order to really understand this,
we need to gather data from our website,
real data,
not crux data that is rolled up.
Not how our lighthouse was
running on that day real data,
like what did the users that were
driving these actual numbers?
What performance attributes did they see?
And so to do that, we're gonna
need to capture real field data.
And that's the next thing we're gonna do.
In order to do that,
we're gonna need to explore a couple of
API's available to us in the browser.
And the first is window.performance.
This is a fantastic and huge space If
you haven't already checked it out,
the MDN article on it is
obviously the definitive guide.
I'm gonna give you the crib notes here as
part of this training about what we need
to do to accomplish our goals.
But to understand all of the ins and
outs of it,
I encourage you to go
check out those docs.
The first important part of
the performance API is called the entries.
Now, an entry is describing one
network event, one transaction,
one request that has happened
as part of this page.
And it captures a whole bunch
of interesting things about it.
Now we can get those entries through any
of these API's, we can just get them all,
we can get all of a certain kind,
we get all named this thing.
And by kind I mean,
you could get the navigation entry,
you could say how did this page
the document itself perform?
Or how long did it take to
download this JavaScript file or
this image or this Ajax request?
Let's take a look at what we
would get back from that.
Any of these things is gonna
return a list of entries.
And that list of entry is going to have
all of these many property on which
is a little overwhelming to look at and
be like, I don't even know where to start.
Lots going on here.
But this is a navigation entry you
can see from entry type navigation.
What would this mean
practically to a human being.
Well, we can translate that to a request.
Here is a diagram of a HTTP
document request and
all the different phases that
a browser would need to go through
at the beginning,
if we're leaving a previous page,
we might need to unload that page and
do some of that work.
When that's done, we have an event
called navigationStart at the beginning.
And we might do some redirects, we might
process some asynchronous unloading,
but navigationStart is one of
these properties that we have.
Then we have fetchStart Which
is when we actually first start
making the final requests
that will become this page.
We're going to reach into our caches.
See if the browser might already have it.
And if not, we're gonna proceed and
do a DNS lookup.
We'll connect over TCP,
will establish an SSL connection
will actually fire the request that we
want, get a response back from the server,
process it, render it and
then trigger a load event.
And these are all
the different steps in there.
Now let's take a look at what
this actually looks like.
Let's look at some code.
So here I have my example
request metric site.
And I have my Chrome Dev Tools
open in another window.
So let's explore this performance API and
see what it looks like.
So hanging off of the global
namespace is performance.
There's a bunch of stuff on here.
So I can just get all
the entries through get entries.
That returns a great big array of
these performance timing events.
Some of them are performance
navigation timings,
some of our performance resource timings.
There's some other kinds
of things in here.
But if I pop open one of these,
I get all of those raw numbers.
This is the actual raw data
of when did each of these
different phases of the network start and
stop.
And with this, I can get really low level
data about how long each request took.
Now, you might be thinking
that this sounds familiar,
like isn't there a better way like
justice than the raw numbers?
And absolutely, there is, this is how we
get this information programmatically.
But you see a lot of the same
information in the Network tab.
If you load up a page,
and on the Network tab,
you see all the different requests who
would go out, these numbers correspond to
the same different things that you
would see in the timing section here.
How long did it take
to queue something up?
How long did it take to process
each different phase for
all the different documents, all
the different assets that need to go in.
If I wanna pull this information
programmatically and
aggregate it across all of my user base,
the performance API is how we do that.